FILE: Reading A.pdf
PAGES: 2



===== PAGE 1 =====
The Honorable Shelley Moore Capito 
Chair 
U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and 
Public Works 
304 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
Washington, DC 20510 
 
The Honorable Sheldon Whitehouse 
Ranking Member 
U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and 
Public Works 
304 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
Washington, DC 20510 
January 27, 2026 
 
Dear Chair Capito and Ranking Member Whitehouse, 
We submit this letter on behalf of a broad, bipartisan group of NGO and industry 
representatives to applaud you for focusing on permitting reform with your January 28 
Hearing to Examine the Federal Environmental Review and Permitting Processes, Part II, and 
encourage the advancement of comprehensive permitting reform legislation during the 
119th Congress. Our current permitting system creates too much uncertainty and 
unnecessary delays, extending permitting timelines far longer than is necessary to ensure 
the safe deployment of infrastructure and restoration projects. A more efficient permitting 
system will improve both economic and environmental outcomes, which is why there has 
been growing bipartisan support for action.  
The 118th Congress’s efforts on permitting reform proved the breadth of stakeholders and 
industries impacted by inefficiencies in America’s existing regulatory framework for 
infrastructure of all kinds. The focus on permitting delays has only grown as greater 
demand for electricity threatens to push already elevated prices even higher. While all 
stakeholders may not agree on individual elements of a permitting package, we are united 
in the belief that durable, technology-neutral legislation must include a mixture of 
bipartisan priorities—these include but are not limited to National Environmental Policy Act 
reform, improved judicial review, project certainty, targeted reforms to enable linear 
infrastructure, geothermal parity with oil and gas, and more. Limiting political interference 
by codifying permitting certainty measures is a top bipartisan priority and a focus of 
stakeholders across all industry sectors. 
Sound reforms will not only accelerate project deployment but also uphold our strong 
environmental standards, producing better outcomes for American businesses and 
communities alike. There will be profound energy affordability, national security, and 
environmental benefits associated with bipartisan, technology-neutral permitting reform. 
Our nation’s aging infrastructure, growing restoration needs, and surging energy demands 
cannot wait until next Congress or beyond—we must let America build again.  
We appreciate your leadership and encourage continued partnership with your colleagues 
in both chambers. We stand ready to work together toward the passage of meaningful, 
bipartisan permitting reform legislation. 
 

===== PAGE 2 =====
Sincerely, 
 
American Conservation Coalition Action  
American Council on Renewable Energy 
Billion Oyster Project 
Bipartisan Policy Center Action 
Breakthrough Institute 
C3 Solutions Action 
Center for Climate and Energy Solutions 
Chamber of Progress 
Citizens for Responsible Energy Solutions 
Clean Energy Buyers Association 
ClearPath Action 
Dream.Org 
Ducks Unlimited 
Environmental Policy Innovation Center 
Foundation for American Innovation 
Geothermal Rising Action  
Inclusive Abundance Action 
Institute for Progress 
National Hydropower Association 
National Wildlife Federation 
Niskanen Center 
Securing America's Future Energy 
The Freshwater Trust 
The Nature Conservatory 
Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership 
ThirdWay 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
 
 